Ishar Singh Saini
Aerospace Engineer
ap-arker-altMumbai, Maharashtra, India /envelpeisharsaini@yahoo.com phone-alt+91 8104156108 /linkedin-inishar-singh-saini
About Me
Presented hypersonic CFD analysis at SAROD 2024 and validated TBCC propulsion performance using OEM data. I'm
an Aerospace graduate specializing in high-speed aerodynamics, CFD, and propulsion systems. Known for rapid
problem-solving and hands-on troubleshooting in high-pressure environments; applied across CFD simulations, CAD
modelling, and UAV prototyping. My work bridges theory, simulation, and real-world application, and I'm now ready to
solve cutting-edge challenges in next-gen propulsion and aerothermal systems.
Experiences / Internships
TATA Advanced Systems Limited
Concept Design Intern
Bengaluru, India
June 2024 - Aug 2024
- Worked in the Concept Design Department under Dr. A. K. Ghosh analyzing the conceptual designs capabilities with the
help of CFD.
- Simulated hybrid UAV performance under crosswind and hover conditions; observed that rear rotors produced up to 50%
greater thrust and power due to equal RPM distribution. Analyzing crosswinds and test data conditions required iterative
RPM input adjustments to balance mechanical power.
- Operated TASL's Linux-based High-Performance Computer (HPC) for computational solving using HiFUN and Python.
- Investigated Pitot tube accuracy when in proximity to the fuselage, identifying stagnation-induced errors when static inlets
are close to the fuselage up to 2%, with greater inaccuracies at high speeds conditions like headwinds or dives.
- Conducted aerodynamic analysis of radome modules of aircraft. Results highlight that the new leeward-curved design led to
7% drag reduction; suggested curvature if applied to the older yet more streamlined design could yield even lower drag.
- Generated high-quality meshes and mesh-compatible geometries from complex NMGs (Numerical Master Geometries) of the
UAVs and aircrafts, ensuring solver compatibility and convergence.
Semester Long Intern
FOSSEE, IIT Bombay
(Remote) Mumbai, India
March 2024 - June 2024
- Conducted CFD simulations using OpenFOAM, an open-source CFD software for the research migration project titled,
'High-speed compressible flow over blunt and re-entry bodies './external-link-alt
- Validated turbulent compressible flow behavior over blunt re-entry capsules against experimental data; identified limitations
up to 13% discrepancy of the sonicFoam solver in hypersonic regimes.
- Performed mesh independence studies to determine optimal grid structure, ensuring solver stability and convergence across
Mach regimes.
- Analyzed shock structure and aerodynamic effects as a function of Mach number, identifying key trends relevant to
re-entry vehicle design.
- Secured 1st Rank in the national screening for project selection.
- This project was presented in SAROD 2024 symposium.
Project & Research Intern
IIT Bombay, Department of Aerospace Engineering
Mumbai, India
June 2023 - Aug 2023
- Worked on a Precision Landing Drone project under Prof. Arnab Maity, in the Department of Aerospace Engineering,
focusing on FEM simulations, structural integrity analysis of composite materials, assembly and testing.
- Conducted detailed static and localized load analyses using Ansys, validating carbon fiber composite performance against
aluminum through stress-strain and deformation comparisons resulting in almost 50% weight reduction of the drone.
- Designed PLA components in SolidWorks; oversaw machining, assembly, and integration of electronics and sensor calibration.
- Implemented a dual-phase precision landing system using RTK GPS and ArUco markers, achieving autonomous landings
with up to 2 cm accuracy.
Skills
Technical Skills: Prototype Designing, Research and Analytical skills, Unmanned Aerial Systems Piloting (Fixed-Wing and
Rotary-Wing), Wind Tunnel Testing
Software Tools: Ansys, HiFUN, FreeFlyer, OpenFOAM, SimScale, OpenVSP, XFLR5, GasTurb, MatLab, Scilab, Visual Studio
Code, CAD, SolidWorks, CATIA, GridPro, ICEM
Programming Tools: C, C++, Python, Linux, GitHub, LaTex
Interpersonal Skills: Leadership qualities, Innovation, Creativity, Strong verbal and written, Communication skills,
Critical-Thinking, Problem-Solving, Teamwork
Languages: English, German (A2), Hindi, Punjabi, Marathi
Education
Amity University Mumbai 2021 - 2025
B.Tech in Aerospace Engineering
- CGPA: 8.33/10.0
- 50% merit scholarship awarded at admission
- GATE (AE) 2025: 21.0/100.0
Page 1 of 2

Awards
Emerging Talent in Open Source /external-link-alt
IIT Bombay National FOSSEE Awards 2025 (Edition II)
July 17, 2025
FOSSEE, IIT Bombay
1st Consolation Prize
Scilab Case Study Hackathon
Feb 20, 2025
FOSSEE, IIT Bombay
1st Place
Project Presentation - Innovation Day
Sept 26, 2024
Amity University Mumbai
3rd Place
Poster Presentation - Innovation Day
Feb 24, 2023
Amity University Mumbai
Certifications
Aircraft Design
NPTEL
/external-link-alt
May 2025
Fundamentals of Supersonic and Hypersonic Flows
NPTEL - Elite + Silver Medal
/external-link-alt
May 2024
FreeFlyer Level 1 Certification
a.i. solutions
/external-link-alt
April 2023
Publications
1. Saini, I. S., Chourushi, T., et al. (2025). Assessment of Existing OpenFOAM Solvers for Incompressible Flow Over a 2D
Prism. CFD Letters 17(10):184-197, 2025. https://doi.org/10.37934/cfdl.17.10.184197 /external-link-alt
2. Saini, I. S., Khadka, B., & Chourushi, T. (2024). Numerical Simulation of High-Speed Compressible Flow over Re-entry
Vehicles using the OpenFOAM. 10th Symposium on Applied Aerodynamics and Design of Aerospace Vehicles & SPICES
Workshop (SAROD 2024). (Paper ID - 57) /external-link-alt
Projects
Conceptual & Numerical study of Turbine-based Combined Cycle Engines and their mode transition /external-link-alt
Final Year Project (Dissertation) Amity University Mumbai
- Investigated a TBCC propulsion configuration integrating an afterburning low-bypass turbofan (GE F404-IN20) with a
ramjet, enabling three operational modes from subsonic to high supersonic (Mach 0.8-4) and identified the critical mode
transition zone between Mach 2.8-3.2 marked by a thrust imbalance.
- Employed a coupled simulation approach using GasTurb for combustion analysis and custom MATLAB thermodynamic
codes to model thrust sharing and air-splitting strategy; results showed increased specific thrust and improved TSFC
performance post-transition, peaking near Mach 2.75.
Conceptual Design of Supersonic Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle
National Aerospace Conceptual Design Competition (NACDeC-VIII) Aeronautical Society of India
- Led and mentored a team of sophomores in the conceptual design of a supersonic UCAV, targeting a 5,000 kg payload
delivery over a 1,000 km combat radius within a one-hour mission cycle.
- Employed Aerodynamic modelling and Wing configuration, Performance and stability analysis, Propulsion sizing, Stealth
design, Structural considerations, Sub-systems design, etc. to finalize a 18800 kg take-off gross weight and mission fuel
fraction of 0.346, with performance analysis conducted in IRA conditions.
- Selected a delta wing configuration and a turbofan with afterburner for Mach 2 cruise, enabling high-speed penetration and
precision strike while ensuring sub-2,000 m take-off/landing performance.
Conceptual Design for a TLAM (Tomahawk Land Attack Missile)
Personal Project
- Designed a long-range, subsonic cruise missile for precision land strikes, launched from ships and submarines, offering
strategic versatility and deep strike capability.
- Built to carry a warhead payload of up to 500 kg and has an operational range of at least 1500 km and operational up to
speeds of Mach 0.8 at altitude between 30-50 meters AGL, to evade radar detection.
- Additional high altitude cruise mode enabling long-range efficiency. Optimized fuselage employing Whitcomb Area Rule to
reduce total drag up to 8% while in the transonic cruise stage.
Design and Development of an Autonomous Navigation Aerial Vehicle (ANAV) for GPS-Denied Environments
ISRO Robotics Challenge - URSC (IRoC-U) U. R. Rao Satellite Centre (URSC), ISRO
- Participated in the IRoC-U challenge with a focus on implementing LiDAR-based 3D mapping, SLAM algorithms, and
machine learning models for autonomous navigation and landing in GPS-denied environments.
- Engineered a modular, dual-mode (manual/autonomous) system with a Emergency Response System (ERS), with
high-accuracy terrain analysis and precision landing under dynamic conditions with a 50 cm landing radius accuracy,
supported by real-time telemetry, redundancy systems.
Minimum Length Rocket Nozzle Design using Method of Characteristics /external-link-alt
Scilab Case-Study Hackathon FOSSEE, IIT Bombay
- Developed a 2D minimum-length rocket nozzle design using the Theory of Characteristics, aiming for optimal Mach number
and uniform flow at the exit and implemented a Scilab-based numerical solver for supersonic, inviscid, and irrotational flow
equations.
- Incorporated a surrogate-based optimization approach to refine the nozzle profile, improving aerodynamic efficiency
while reducing computational load; emphasized performance optimization in the diverging section.
Validation and Verification of Aerospike Designs in Supersonic Flow /external-link-alt
OpenFOAM Case Study Project FOSSEE, IIT Bombay
- Conducted a numerical study in OpenFOAM to analyze supersonic flow over blunt bodies with and without an aerospike,
evaluating the effects of varying Mach numbers with a constant Reynold's number on pressure distribution, velocity profiles,
and temperature gradients; validated results against Crawford's experimental data.
Page 2 of 2